Having personally moved to Los Angeles, it felt like a fresh start. A new chapter in which the possibilities were endless. Like a lot of LA transplants I was chasing a dream building my startup. Even if I didn’t accomplish what I set out to do, I knew the experience living by the beach, random celebrity sightings and the glorious melting pot that Los Angeles has would make the big move worth it.
With all that Los Angeles offers, it can also be an overwhelming experience; the sprawling metropolis, dozens of distinct neighborhoods, end to end traffic, and of course, living costs. While many people dream on just how to make their dream a reality, they’re often bogged down by the logistics. Where am I going to live? Am I going to need a car? Should I really move there by myself? How am I going to make money? How much can I spend on rent?
Those are all legitimate questions that need answers.
Co-living is making a lot of those questions easier to answer. One in particular, SOTA Co-living, a coliving space with five locations across Los Angeles, has made it its mission to help people get their feet set in LA.
SOTA Co-Living is an affordable housing situation for people moving to Los Angeles. Rent by the room!
Starting at $695 a month, SOTA offers a uniquely affordable co-living experience.
Just how good of a deal is SOTA? Let’s check out SOTA compared to a traditional apartment rental or sublet in Los Angeles.
Co-living is affordable, more so than a traditional apartment rental and even sublets.
Whereas a traditional sublet or apartment can cost well over $1,500 a month, SOTA’s pod-style rooms allows you to be well under the $1,000 a month mark.
We interviewed Oleksiy Malytskyy, CMO of SOTA coliving, to understand what makes their offering unique and valuable to renters looking for a home in Los Angeles.
What was your inspiration for SOTA?
Our main inspiration is creating a part of the infrastructure of the future. The world is changing so rapidly that sometimes you just need to take a break, you need a FRESH START.
A Fresh start is something we didn’t know before, but we will need it in the future. It’s a moment in your life when you feel like you are not in your place. A moment when you want to start all over again. Reasons can be different — job stopped giving you joy, you lost a close one, you cannot find a spot where you fit in the current city. You need to start fresh: meet new people, understand what you need, what you want to achieve in these circumstances. Maybe learn something, maybe teach someone.
Being in this state of mind for a long time, you start realizing that all of those failures that you have had are actually a path to a brighter future. If you don’t fall, you don’t win.
We know this because as the founders of SOTA we have been in this situation before. When we moved to Los Angeles five years ago, we had no friends or family nearby, no one was there to support us. Huge rent prices, no connections, no cars.
What differentiates SOTA from other co-living spaces?
The difference is that everyone at Sota started from a co-living situation. And we know what is important. I spent a year at our Koreatown location. And it was awesome. It helped me to understand US culture better, I met a few close friends, I found new ideas and opportunities there. So now it’s easier for me to help other tenants. If you are creative, if you want to start your project we will support you! It’s the main difference.
SOTA is geared towards creatives and entrepreneurs. Why do you think it’s so important to have a living space for entrepreneurs?
Entrepreneurs are the fuel of this country. They are pushing the boundaries forward. I’m an entrepreneur myself and I know how important it is to find early support for your ideas and get feedback early and your first clients. Here entrepreneurs can find someone to build a website, to create and launch Ads, to write blog posts. We have tenants that are helping us with ads, creating videos for us. And they are open for collaborations. So if you are an entrepreneur, at Sota you can find a lot of resources to launch your product.
In what ways do entrepreneurs/creatives collaborate because of SOTA?
For example we have a girl that wanted to start her food blog. So we started a community masterclass where she teaches other tenants on how to cook. At one location we have people who are working on a Film script together and we have a lot of similar stories. We connect people and they create a project. Shortly we have a plan to launch a micro grant program for projects born in the Sota community.
It seems like SOTA is the perfect place for someone moving to LA, especially given how affordable it is. How many of SOTA’s members are from LA vs. just moved to LA? Domestic vs. International?
I would say that 70 % of people moved into Los Angeles 10 years ago, but they were not raised and born here. International is about 10%, so the majority 80% are coming from other states and chose Los Angeles because this is the place they wanted to pursue their dreams.
What perks of coliving do your members love most?
The most popular perk right now is locations where we have photo studios. Photography and art are huge in a city like Los Angeles so it’s a major benefit to have a great place to take photos.
What would you recommend to a person who is looking for a Fresh start?
1. Start meditating, at least 1 minute a day. Start distracting yourself from the world around you and spend this 1 minute in the world with yourself, in a world where you make new plans, forget about the present, and live a full life, achieving your dreams. Meditation will help discard everything unnecessary and see the way to a new future.
2. Take care of your health. Without health, it is difficult to achieve something, to become a successful actor, to write a book, or to get to your dream. Start your day with a quick workout and a glass of lemon water. Be safe.
3. Subscribe to people who inspire you on social media like Twitter and Instagram. It can be a writer, entrepreneur, or maybe a beauty blogger. By reading their posts, you will learn something new and it will help you on your way. Their actions will motivate you to get up and take a step towards your goal.
4. Start taking a new class or learn a new language. Small victories feed us, so it is very important to have small achievements. Even if you learn one word every day or read a paragraph of the new course, it will fill your daily life with a small victory and make your routine less unpleasant.
5. Plan your project. Maybe you have had some ideas on your mind for a long time, but never got enough time to work on them. Make a step by step plan that you will bring to life in the next 3 months. Maybe you just wanted to help a close friend, or clean your neighborhood. These things will give you a lot of strength and inspiration for the future.
Interested in living in SOTA? Inquire here.
